# 24HrDigitalClock
The purpose of this project is to design a digital clock that’s displaced three digits (seconds, minutes, and hours) from basic digital discrete IC components.

The digital clock circuit is composed of a few important stages that have their own function.  An essential, perhaps the most important part of the clock, is its oscillator which provides the "heartbeat" of the clock.  There are a few ways that this part of the circuit can work, and we shall go over a few of them later.  The next stage consists of the counters, the ones of seconds counter going up every tick, and carrying over the remainder once certain counters reach certain binary numbers in order to keep count of time.  The third main stage is the binary to seven segment decoders as well as the seven segment displays themselves.  This stage's primary concern is taking the outputs from the decoders and turning them into signals that will register as readable numbers on the seven segment displays.

Our first stage, the oscillator, is the most important piece of the digital clock, as it controls how often the clock ticks up.  Obviously, we want the oscillator to output 1hz, or one cycle per second because we are creating a clock that is based off of counting seconds.  The exact count will never be exactly one second, but we can get it to within a reasonable margin.  The least accurate method consists of using a 555 timer to create a square wave that ticks up the counters every time a logical one is output.  Part of the reason this method is inaccurate is because of the dependence on capacitor and resistor values.  Since components are rarely at the exact stated value, there is a significant inaccuracy that is inherent with 555 timers as oscillators.  Instead, we can opt to use a crystal oscillator.  Crystal oscillators, when a voltage is applied, always vibrate at a specific frequency.  Therefore, we can use an oscillator that vibrates at a constant frequency to create a 1hz clock.  To get exactly 1hz, we must take advantage of two IC's, the CD4060 Frequency Divider and the CD4027 Flip Flop.  With the proper components, the 4060 can reduce the frequency of a 32.768kHz down to a mere 2hz.  From there, the 4027 reduces the output to a 1hz signal.  Since the crystal oscillator's frequency does not change, neither will the one hertz signal coming out of the 4027.

The second "stage" of the clock circuit is the counters.  It is important to note, that there is one counter chip for each of the digits in the LED displays.  From our oscillator, we can work into a series of SN74HC192 counter chips that will keep track of how many seconds have ticked.  The oscillator output is directly connected to the ones of seconds counter, as that must be counted up every tick.  Once each counter reaches a ten count, the counter resets and ticks up the next counter in line (the tens of minutes).  This creates an issue when we only want 60 seconds or 60 minutes, and the solution to both sections of counters works the same way.  To fix this issue, we connect two of the pins (that both read a logical 1 when the sixth count is output) to an and gate.  Therefore, when the counter outputs a BCD six, the and gate will output a logical one, which is then sent to the reset pins of the seconds, and the time up pin for the ones of minutes.  This works the same way for the minutes section, once the tens of minutes clocks up to 6, the and gate triggers, resets the minutes counters and clocks up the ones of hours.  For the hours section, there is a similar but slightly different reset method.  Once the tens of hours outputs a two, and the ones of hours outputs a four, they both trigger an and gate which in turn triggers the resets for the hour counters.

The final section is the binary to seven segment decoders that produce a readable output for the seven segment displays. Each of the counters from the previous section outputs 0-9 in binary for the decoders to read.  From there, the decoders produce an output that lights the individual segments of the LED display to give numbers.  It is important to make sure that the LED's have resistors before them to ensure they do not burn out.
